---
layout: entry
title: Idea of Transparency Through the Process
date: 12/16/2025
---

Finally done with my semeseter. Looking forward to the next, but in the meantime I
want to make sure I get to do more than work. So I'm finally back putting some work into this website,
hopefully getting it to a point where I like it.

I haven't been one to want to advertise myself and my work, so this is always pushed back on the
priority list. But starting this winter break, I've been feeling more motivation to put my work out there.
Right now the motivation is coming from what seems like a more selfish place, the feeling that my work
is not getting recogized enough. But hopefully that will serve as enough motivation until I figure out
that the vulnerability of putting myself out there is worth the community that awaits.

This vulnerability is something that I feel like I must embrace as much as I can, with transparency as
the key principle.

My knowledge, interests, and thoughts are ever-changing. And I think its important to be honest with others
on my growth. Although it may not make for the most flattering presentation of myself, I feel now that
my personal site should be a reflection of me, which includes me as I was along with as I am now.

With that, I hope to keep these early journal entires, projects, and notes up. They serve as a testimate
to where I have come from. And although a recruiter may look at some of my ugly repos and go 'wow, that guy
CANNOT code well', I hope that people on this site can find grace in the fact that I've gotten better since then,
and will continue to keep getting better.

That's just something that's important to me right now. We'll see how it changes in the future. Hopefully
I can get better at this journalling thing too, and actually offer some insight.