---
layout: entry
title: Getting Back Into It...
date: 2025-7-20
---

Like I said on my journal in the note-transer GitHub, I really forgot how much I liked building things.
I mean, at least when its going well ;)

But really, I just felt like there were so many different tools at my fingertips, and I'm able right now
to string them together and figure out how thye can work with each other to produce what I want.
And Python definitely helps making it pretty intuitive, and with notebooks, the ease of experimenting
and figuring out what works, then being able to implement that is really wild.

Of course, I still have a lot to learn when actually deploying these apps. Right now, my 'finished product'
that I'm aiming for is realistically just a mock-up, a proof of concept. But I don't really know how to deploy something
fully right now, especially not in the cloud or for a ton of users.

I was thinking about that while I was programming. I was like, "there are a lot of pages to process",
"for each page there is a segmentation into each line", "then I preprocess each line", "then I use the TrOCR model".
That's **a ton** of calls and computations for just one page, let alone a lot of pages.
I know that Adobe's text recognition can feel kind of slow with large PDFs, so I can only images what my non-optimized
pipeline will be like in the end.

But I don't expect myself to know that know, just want to get better and learn how to program that stuff by the end of the day.
There's so many ways of approaching the problem, things that could be improved...

- Queueing up the jobs of processing each line, having multiple threads of processing
- Combining some lines for possibility of sustained context and faster processing
- Being able to handle the processing of different users at the same time (this comes with the previosu two and more)

I can't even really start to know the extent to which I'm only scratching the surface of all of that.
But for now, I'll stick with my limited scope until I've finished this prototype, then I can worry about
learning optimizations, deployment, etc.

I have a ways to go until I'm really thinking about SWE issues at scale, but I can't wait until I'm proficient enough
to fully know what's going on. I'll be working on it whenever I can, building from the ground up.

I'm excited for the future, to be building novel systems for interesting problems ('novel', yuck. word sounds kind of pretentious)
and having a good time learning while doing it.

Best of luck on the future endevours. Stay hacking, staying interested!

-Griffin